review edits 2022-12-01 (#94)
ga4gh/data-security: AAI/AAIConnectProfile.md

left to right direction

package "Unspecified clients, additional services, protocols" {
component "<b>Visa Assertion Source</b> (1)\norganization" as VisaSource11
component "<b>Visa Assertion Source</b> (2)\norganization" as VisaSource12

> component "<b>Visa Assertion Source</b> (1)\norganization" as VisaSource21

Author: Stay tuned. We discussed a simpler approach to this diagram that I am drafting now. Obviously it needs to make sense to you so we'll discuss more.

> component "<b>Visa Assertion Source</b> (1)\norganization" as VisaSource21

Author: I think the numbering is okay in the new set of diagrams but it could change if you prefer. Now it's 
- Example 1  - VAS 1  and 2
- Example 2 - VAS 1 and 2 and …

But if you think it's clearer it could change to 3, 4, …

component "<b>Visa Assertion Source</b> (2)\norganization" as VisaSource22

database "<b>Visa Assertion</b>\n<b>Repository (1)</b>\nabstract service" as VisaRepository1

> component "<b>Visa Issuer (1)</b>\nabstract service\n(optional)" as VisaIssuer1

Author: Nothing is labeled optional (certainly not the Visa Issuer) in the latest draft.

database "<b>Visa Assertion</b>\n<b>Repository (2)</b>\nabstract service" as VisaRepository2
component "<b>Visa Issuer (2)</b>\nabstract service\n(optional)" as VisaIssuer2
}

package "Specified GA4GH AAI clients, services, protocols" {
component "<b>Broker</b>\nservice" as Broker #FAFAD2
component "<b>Client</b>\napplication" as Client #FAFAD2
component "<b>Passport</b>\n<b>Clearinghouse</b>\nservice" as ClearingHouse #FAFAD2
}

VisaSource11 ..> VisaRepository1
VisaSource12 ..> VisaRepository1
VisaRepository1 ..> VisaIssuer1

VisaSource21 ..> VisaRepository2
VisaSource22 ..> VisaRepository2
VisaRepository2 ..> VisaIssuer2

> VisaRepository1 ..> Broker 

Author: Agreed! The new diagrams do not bypass the Visa Issuer.

VisaIssuer1 ..> Broker 
VisaRepository2 ..> Broker 
VisaIssuer2 ..> Broker 
Broker --> Client 
Client --> ClearingHouse

@enduml

> # OR, MORE SEPARATED:

Reviewer: I prefer the original non-separated diagram.

Author: We could go back to a non-separated approach, but consider the new diagrams.

> example diagrams. See below...
>
> And now we return you to your regularly scheduled spec draft...

```
</discussion>
```

### Flow of Assertions

@startuml
package "Flow of assertions" {

skinparam componentStyle rectangle
left to right direction

component "<b>Broker</b>" as bro
component "<b>Passport</b>\n<b>Clearinghouse</b>" as ch
component "<b>Visa Assertion Source</b>" as vas
component "<b>Visa Issuer</b>" as vi

vas --> vi
vi --> bro 
bro --> ch

}
@enduml

The above diagram shows how [Visa Assertions](#term-visa-assertion) flow from a [Visa Assertion Source](#term-visa-assertion-source)
to a [Passport Clearinghouse](#term-passport-clearinghouse) that uses them. 

Implementations may introduce clients, services, and protocols
to provide the mechanisms to move the data between the
[Visa Assertion Sources](#term-visa-assertion-source) and the [Broker](#term-broker).  These mechanisms are unspecified by the scope of this specification except that
they MUST adhere to security and privacy best practices, such as those outlined
in this specification, in their handling of protocols, claims, tokens and
related data. The flow between these components

> MAY not be direct or conversely services shown as being separate MAY be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MAY be indirect or conversely services shown as being separate MAY be
```

I think "MAY not be direct" seems like a suggestion that you should not use indirection here, which I don't think is the intent.

note "Signed visas can be sourced from\nmultiple visa issuers - either on\ndemand or via batch transfer/cached" as VisaNote

VisaIssuer1 --> Broker  #text:red : (step 3) visas obtained
VisaIssuer2 --> Broker 

Client <--> Broker #text:red : (step 1) login flow results in\nan AAI passport-scoped access token
Client ---> TokenEndpoint #text:red : (step 2) request for token exchange

> Client ---> PassportIssuer #text:red : (step 3) visas obtained

Author: Right on. The new sequence diagram shows the Broker/Passport Issuer obtaining the visas, not the client.

> Client <-- TokenEndpoint  #text:red : (step 4) passport issued (passport contains visa A,B,C)

Reviewer: The markings A,B,C were removed from step 3, so step 4 should not mention them.
```suggestion
Client <-- TokenEndpoint  #text:red : (step 4) passport issued (passport contains visas)
```

Author: Replaced the Passport Issuer Conformance diagram with a sequence diagram, which should address this feedback.
